Studio also marks Sept. 28, 2012 date for Oliver Stone thriller ”Savages“ and July 19, 2013 release for Tom Cruise sci-fi movie ”Oblivion“
Universal announced release dates for three anticipated upcoming projects Thursday.
Highlighting the announcement was the July 3, 2013 date for the animated follow-up "Despicable Me 2."
Other films in the release-date announcement included Oliver Stone thriller "Savages" (Sept. 28, 2012) and Tom Cruise sci-fi movie "Oblivion" (July 19, 2013).
Here's the Universal one-sheet:
SAVAGES (Friday, September 28, 2012)
Three-time Oscar®-winning filmmaker Oliver Stone returns to the screen with an all-star ensemble for the scorching thriller Savages, based on the best-selling crime novel by Don Winslow, which was named one of The New York Times’ Top 10 Books of 2010.
Blake Lively stars as Ophelia, the girlfriend to two Laguna Beach entrepreneurs, one an ex-mercenary (Taylor Kitsch) and the other a principled environmentalist (Aaron Johnson), who’ve built a thriving homegrown industry on the best marijuana ever developed.
When they refuse to sell their business to a brutal Mexican drug cartel, Ophelia is kidnapped, and so begins an escalating series of ploys with savage consequences.
Filling out the stellar cast are Benicio Del Toro, Salma Hayek, John Travolta, Uma Thurman and Emile Hirsch.
DESPICABLE ME 2 (Wednesday, July 3, 2013)
Gru, his girls and his vast army of minions return in Despicable Me 2, the follow-up to the blockbuster 3D CGI feature that grossed more than $540 million at the worldwide box office and became the tenth biggest animated film in domestic history.
Chris Meledandri and his acclaimed filmmaking team at Illumination Entertainment create an all-new animated adventure with the all-star voice cast returning to tell the next chapter in the life of everyone’s favorite (former?)
super-villain.
OBLIVION (Friday, July 19, 2013)
Tom Cruise stars in the ambitious fantasy-adventure Oblivion as a former solider who is the last person on an Earth devastated by war with an alien race.
When he encounters a crashed spacecraft with a lone survivor, her story propels them on an epic adventure that will alter both their destinies.
Oblivion is the next film from acclaimed visualist Joseph Kosinski (TRON: Legacy) and is based on the illustrated novel of the same name.
Please fill out this field.
Photo by Corina Marie for TheWrap
I agree with TheWrap's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy and provide my consent to receive marketing communications from them.
