Who are Yetis?
The Yetis are characters in the film Minions. They are the former boss of the Minions.

Who are Wild Knuckles' Henchmen?
Wild Knuckles' Henchmen are minor antagonists of Minions: The Rise of Gru. they were minions hired by Wild Knuckleshimself, after he was betrayed by the Vicious 6. When Knuckles knew that Felonius Gru has the Zodiac Stone, he and his henchmen successfully kidnapped Gru and took him captive.

Who are Wild Knuckles Crocodiles?
Wild Knuckles Crocodiles are Minor Villains in Minions: The Rise of Gru. These are Knuckles' evil crocodile pets, which he keeps in his pool.

Who is Henry "Wild" Knuckles?
Henry "Wild" Knuckles (born May 29, 1902 - died December 10, 1995) is one of the two overarching protagonists (along with Marlena Gru) of the Despicable Me franchise where he served as the unseen overarching protagonist of Minions, the tritagonist of the second prequel film, Minions: The Rise of Gru, and the posthumous overarching protagonist of the Despicable Me trilogy.

Who is Wesley?
Wesley is a little boy who lives in Thneedville. He glows green by swimming in the polluted toxic water in the opening.

Who is Walter Nelson Jr. ?
Walter Nelson Jr. is a minor character in Minions. He is the oldest son of Walter Nelson and Madge Nelson and the older brother of Tina Nelson and Binky Nelson.

Who is Walter Nelson?
Walter Nelson is a minor character in Minions. He is the father and leader of the Nelson family, who gave Kevin, Stuart and Bob a ride to Orlando.

Who is Vincenzo and Paolo?
Vincenzo and Paolo are two young Italian diving instructors of Marlena Gru in a luxurious swimming pool in Despicable Me 3.

Who is ​Vector's Shark?
​Vector's Shark is a large, adult great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias) that lives in a large aquarium of unknown size in Vector's fortress. Vector uses it as a pet and defense mechanism. It is dark greyish-blue on its back and white on its belly.

Who is Vector?
Vector (born Victor Perkins) is the son of bank president Mr. Perkins and an aspiring supervillain.

Who is Valerie Da Vinci ?
Valerie Da Vinci is one of the three overarching protagonists in Despicable Me 3 (the other two being Silas Ramsbottom and Marlena Gru). She is the current director of the Anti-Villain League and successor of Silas Ramsbottom. In the film, she fires Gru and Lucy Wilde for failing the mission to catch Balthazar Bratt. She is voiced by Jenny Slate.

Who is Tyrannosaurus rex?
The Tyrannosaurus rex is a minor character seen at the beginning of Minions. It was the first master of the Minions after the tribe's landing.

Who is Tony?
Tony is one of the minions who appears in Minions.

Who is Tom?
Tom is a two-eyed Minion with short buzz-cut hair.

Who is Tina Nelson ?
Tina Nelson is a minor character in Minions. She is the only daughter of Walter Nelson and Madge Nelson, the younger sister of Walter Nelson Jr. and older sister of Binky Nelson.

Who is The Villaintriloquist?
The Villaintriloquist (also known as Villaintriloquist) is a boss found in the 1.8.0 update, which included Super Silly Fun Land for Despicable Me: Minion Rush.

Who is Social Worker?
The Social Worker is an employee of Miss Hattie's Home for Girls. He is assigned the task of checking if Gru's House is suitable for children.

Who are The Pink Berets?
The Pink Berets is Special Forces Unit serving the Easter Bunny. Among the members, Fluffy is the leader and has a tracking device while Bit is the smallest and yongest one; Patch is the oldest member and she is the gadget expert, and she looks after Bit, who is always messing up.

Who is Svengeance?
Svengeance is a Swedish roller-skating champion villain and member of the Vicious 6. He is an antagonist and appeared in Minions: The Rise of Gru.

Who is Stuart?
Stuart is one of the Minions that appears in the Despicable Me franchise. He appears in Despicable Me, Despicable Me 2, Despicable Me 3, Minions, Minions: The Rise of Gru, Minions Oscars Segment 2016, Minions Paradise and Santa's Little Helpers.

Who is Stronghold?
Stronghold is an antagonist and a member of the Vicious 6.  He appeared in Minions: The Rise of Gru.

Who is Snowball?
Snowball is a major anti-hero of the 2016 animated film The Secret Life of Pets, and the deuteragonist of The Secret Life of Pets 2.

Who is Silas Ramsbottom?
Silas Ramsbottom is the former director of the Anti-Villain League and the boss of Agent Lucy Wilde. He appears as the overarching protagonist of Despicable Me 2 and one of the three overarching protagonists in Despicable Me 3 (the other two being Marlena Gru and Valerie Da Vinci). Additionally, a slightly younger version of the character appears in Minions: The Rise of Gru.

Who is Shannon?
Shannon is a former minor antagonist in Despicable Me 2. She is a friend of Jillian and goes out on a date with Gru.

Who is Sergei?
Sergei is the main antagonist of Illumination's tenth feature film The Secret Life of Pets 2.

Who is Security Guard?
The Security Guard is a character that appears in the mini-movie Binky Nelson Unpacified. He tries to stop Binky Nelson, who appears to be an intruder of the museum, his effort turns out to be unsuccessful in the end, however.

Who is Scarlet Overkill?
Scarlet Overkill is world-famous supervillain, the wife of Herb Overkill and the archenemy of Kevin, Stuart and Bob As well as Queen Elizabeth and her favorite corgis. She is the main antagonist of the film Minions and one of the three unseen overarching antagonists of Minions: The Rise of Gru (the other two being Balthazar Bratt and Eduardo Perez). She is voiced by Sandra Bullock.

Who is Rosa?
Rosa is a character in Despicable Me 2. She is the new girlfriend of Antonio Perez.

Who is Robert Gru?
Robert Gru also known as The Bald Terror, was a legendary supervillain, the father of Felonius Gru and Dru Gru, and the ex-husband of Marlena Gru. He was also the adopted paternal grandfather of Margo, Edith and Agnes.

Who is Queen Elizabeth II?
Queen Elizabeth II was a character in Minions. She was the monarch of the United Kingdom until her death in 2022, and resided in England and favorite dogs Corgis.

Who is Professor Flux?
Professor Flux is a villain in Minions.

Who is Poochy?
Poochy (as called by Bob) is a rat appears in the film Minions, and it is Bob's favorite animal.

Who is Pollito?
Pollito is Eduardo Perez's pet chicken and the true secondary antagonist of Despicable Me 2.

Who is Phil?
Phil (or Phillip) is one of the Minions. A minion by the same name, having a different appearance, appears in Despicable Me 2.

Who is Phil in Despicable Me 2?
Phil is one of the Minions that appears in Despicable Me 2. He is voiced by Pierre Coffin. A minion by the same name, having a different appearance, appears in the first film.

Who is Penny?
Penny is an orphan living in Miss Hattie's Home for Girls.

Who is Nun-Chuck?
Nun-Chuck is a villain and a member of the Vicious 6. As her name suggests, she is depicted as a nun-like villain who uses nunchucks as her personal weapons. She appeared in Minions: The Rise of Gru.

Who is Norbert?
Norbert is one of the Minions that appears in the film Minions. He has one eye and wet combed hair

Who is Niko?
Niko is a young boy who lives in Freedonia, in Despicable Me 3.

Who is Natalie?
Natalie is one of Jillian's friends. She is first seen at Agnes' birthday party. She is also one of the guests at Gru and Lucy's wedding.

Who is Napoleon Bonaparte?
Napoleon Bonaparte was a French emperor and general. He hired the Minions to be in his army. During the supposed invasion of Russia, Stuart accidentally tilts the cannon to be aimed close to Napoleon's bottom. The cannon eventually fires, nearly hitting Napoleon and sending him flying into the air.

Who is MSNBC Anchorman?
The MSNBC Anchorman is a news reporter and a minor character in Despicable Me. He is shown twice in the film, first when he reports on the theft of the Pyramid of Giza and second when he announces that Moon has been returned after being stolen.

Who is Mrs. Wiggins?
Mrs. Wiggins is Ted's mother and Grammy Norma’s daughter.

Who is Mr. Spikey?
Mr. Spikey is a villain in Minions.

Who is Mr. Perkins?
Mr. Perkins is one of the overarching antagonists of the Despicable Me franchise.

Who is Miss Madison Hattie?
Miss Madison Hattie is the secondary antagonist in the film Despicable Me. She is a mean woman who runs an all-girl orphanage Miss Hattie's Home for Girls.

Who are Minions?
The Minions are small, yellow, capsule shaped creatures, who have one or two eyes. They are the signature characters of the Despicable Me series, as well as the official mascots for Illumination. They bring much of the comedy in the film, and they are known as the scene-stealer of the movie. Frequently, they speak in an incomprehensible language, called Minionese, occasionally switching to English. They are much childish in some ways, yet they seem to be very intelligent in certain aspects. All the minions are supporting characters in Minions (with the exception of Kevin, Stuart, and Bob), major characters in Despicable Me and Despicable Me 2 and supporting characters in Despicable Me 3 (with the exception of Mel).

Who is Mike ?
Mike is one of the Minions.

Who is Lucy Wilde?
Lucy Wilde is an agent of the Anti-Villain League (AVL).

Who is Master Chow?
Master Chow is a supporting character in Minions: The Rise of Gru and a master of kung fu.

Who is Marlena Gru ?
Marlena Gru (also known as Gru's Mom) is one of the two overarching protagonists of the Despicable Me franchise (the other being Wild Knuckles), serving as the overarching protagonist of Despicable Me, a non-speaking minor character in Despicable Me 2, a cameo character in Minions,  one of the three overarching protagonists in Despicable Me 3 (the other two being Silas Ramsbottom and Valerie Da Vinci), and one of the two overarching protagonists of Minions: The Rise of Gru (the other being Dr. Nefario).

Who is Margo Gru?
Margo Gru is the adopted eldest child of Felonius Gru and Lucy Wilde. Before she was adopted, and much like her younger sisters, Edith and Agnes, she was an orphan horribly treated by Miss Hattie. Like Edith and Agnes, Margo wished to be adopted by somebody who would love them. She is very disapproving of Edith's mischief, shown where Edith jumps in puddles which gets her and Agnes wet, and also when she breaks a vial of acid in Gru's kitchen.

Who is Madge Nelson?
Madge Nelson is a minor character in Minions, she is the wife of Walter Nelson. She and her family gave Kevin, Stuart and Bob a ride going to Orlando.

Who is Lucy Gru ?
Lucy Gru   (née Wilde) is a major character of the Despicable Me franchise. She was a goofy agent of the Anti-Villain League. She is the love interest, later wife of Felonius Gru and adoptive mother to Margo, Edith, and Agnes. She is one of the main characters in the movies Despicable Me 2 and of Despicable Me 3. Beautiful Egypt is also known as her sad theme.

Who is Lucky?
Lucky is a small one-horned white baby goat and a supporting character in Despicable Me 3. Agnes first thought he was a real living unicorn, though Gru tells her that he is just a goat,  Agnes still cherishes Lucky, and he becomes her new pet. a trusting baby goat with one horn whom Agnes discovers in the Freedonia forest and enthusiastically mistakes for a Unicorn.  when the adorable Unigoat excitedly licks her face, Agnes giggles gleefully and declares that she will call him Lucky.

Who is Lisa?
Lisa is a character that appears in Gru's flashback in Despicable Me 2. Although she was unaware, Gru had a huge crush on her in elementary school.

Who is Lipstick Lady?
Lipstick Lady is a minor character appearing in Minions. She is seen in her car applying lipstick when Kevin (a giant at the the time) is walking around London. Due to his giant size, each of Kevin's steps made an earthquake-like effect on the ground. When she is about to finish applying her lipstick, one of Kevin's quakes knocks her into the inner roof of her car and the impact knocks her out. Her legs are seen dangling in the air after she is knocked out.

Who is Lance?
Lance is one of the Minions.

Who is Kyle?
Kyle is a pet dog of the Gru family, belonging to Gru, and then given to Agnes.

Who is Kevin?
Kevin is one of the Minions.

Who is Kevin ?
Kevin (temporarily known as Sir Kevin) is one of the more notable Minions of the Despicable Me franchise. He appears in Despicable Me 2, Despicable Me 3, Training Wheels, the prequel films Minions and Minions: The Rise of Gru, Minions Paradise, and Minions Oscars Segment 2016. A minion by the same name, having a different appearance, appears in the first film.

Who is Ken?
Ken (or Kenneth) is a minion who appears in the intro video of Minions Paradise. A minion by the same name, having a different appearance appears Despicable Me 2 and Panic in the Mailroom.

Who is Ken?
Ken is one of the Minions. A minion by the same name, having a different appearance appears in the intro video for Minions Paradise.

Who is Justin's Mother?
Justin's Mother is a minor character that appeared in the opening scene of Despicable Me. She tries to catch Justin after he escapes from his child safety leash, and he fell into the fake inflatable pyramid.

Who is Justin's Father?
Justin's Father is the father of Justin.

Who is Justin?
Justin is a minor character that appears in the opening scene of Despicable Me, climbing out of a packed tour bus among several tourists and his parents. While his mother keeps him on a child safety collar, his father tells the mother to take a picture of him "holding up the pyramid", and proceeds to pose.

Who is Jillian?
Jillian is a neighbor of Felonius Gru.

Who is Jewel Thief?
The Jewel Thief is a nameless thief who robbed the jewelry store in Training Wheels. He stole the ice-cream truck when the Margo, Edith, and Agnes were buying ice-cream, but was stopped by Agnes when she crashed into him with her new bike-motorcycle.

Who is Jerry?
Jerry is one of the Minions, appearing in Despicable Me and Despicable Me 3.

Who is Italian Waiter?
The Italian Waiter is a waiter at Zarelli's Italian Restaurant, where Shannon and Gru have their date.

Who is Ice Cream Vendor?
The Ice Cream Vendor is an elderly ice cream van driver in the town near Gru's home.

Who is Herb Overkill?
Herb Overkill is the secondary antagonist of the movie Minions. He is the husband of Scarlet Overkill and an inventor who helps create her various weapons alongside other inventions.

Who is Henry?
Henry is one of the minions who appears in the film Minions.

Who is Gru Family?
The Gru Family is the main protagonists of the Despicable Me franchise. They are a family with a long line of villainy with tons of notorious supervillain throughout the century. All the supervillain members have a same facial structure, like Gru and Dru.

Who is Glam Slammer?
Glam Slammer is a villain in Minions.

Who is Gertrude?
Gertrude is a minor character. She is a neighbor of Gru, Jillian, and Fred, and she currently lives in the retirement home Fuzzy Memories.

Who is Fritz?
Fritz is a supporting character in Despicable Me 3. He is the elderly butler of Dru Gru.

Who is Fred McDade?
Fred McDade is Felonius Gru's next-door neighbor.

Who is Frankie Fishlips?
Frankie Fishlips is a villain in Minions.

Who is Floyd's Eagle?
Floyd's Eagle is Floyd Eaglesan's pet eagle.

Who is Floyd Eaglesan?
Floyd Eaglesan is a minor character in Despicable Me 2. He is the owner of the wig store, Eagle Hair Club, in the Paradise Mall.

Who is Felonius Gru?
Felonius Gru (or simply Gru) (born sometime in 1965), is the son of Marlena Gru and the late Robert Gru, and is the main protagonist of the Despicable Me franchise. He is a former supervillain and is the husband of AVL agent Lucy Wilde. He has three adopted daughters Margo, Edith, and Agnes. Gru is also the leader of the Minions, is friends with Dr. Nefario and is also the twin brother of Dru Gru.

Who is Fabrice?
Fabrice is a minor character in the film Minions, and he is the hairstylist of Scarlet Overkill when she is in Buckingham Palace.

Who is Eric?
Eric is one of the minions who appears in the film Minions.

Who is Egyptian Pharaoh?
An Egyptian Pharaoh was one of the Minions' former masters.

Who is Eduardo Perez?
Eduardo Perez (born July 29, 1946 - died May 6, 2017) is the owner of the Mexican restaurant Salsa & Salsa in the Paradise Mall. What few know, however, is that he is actually the illustrious El Macho, a renowned bank robber with super-human strength. The undercover supervillain has now returned to hold the world hostage, using the deadly mutagen, PX-41, to form indestructible, mindless, killing, and bloodthirsty henchmen. He has a son named Antonio, who was Margo's first known boyfriend, though the flirtatious child later cheated on her.

Who is Edith Gru?
Edith Gru is the adopted middle child of Felonius Gru and Lucy Wilde. She has an older sister, Margo, and a younger sister, Agnes. She appears in all three Despicable Me films, the attraction Despicable Me: Minion Mayhem and several of the mini movies.

Who is Dumo the Sumo ?
Dumo the Sumo (also known as Sumo Villain in the credits) was a villain that appears in Minions. He is extremely strong and fat, like any sumo wrestler.

Who is Dru Gru?
Dru Gru is the twin brother of Felonius Gru and son of Robert and Marlena Gru, Lucy Wilde's brother-in-law, and the adoptive paternal uncle of Margo, Edith, and Agnes. He is an aspiring villain who wishes to learn from his retired brother Felonius Gru.

Who is Dr. Joseph Albert Nefario?
Dr. Joseph Albert Nefario, most commonly referred to as Dr. Nefario (born July 28, 1931), is the secondary tritagonist of the Despicable Me franchise, serving as the tritagonist of Despicable Me, a major character in Despicable Me 2, a cameo character in Minions, the unseen overarching protagonist of Despicable Me 3, one of the two overarching protagonists of Minions: The Rise of Gru (the other being Marlena Gru), and will return in some captivity in Despicable Me 4. He is Gru's gadgeteer, residing in his underground lair and laboratories. He builds and designs most of Gru's machines. Gru and Dr. Nefario seem to have been trying to shock the world with "The True Crime of the Century" for several years.

Who is Donnie?
Donnie is one of the Minions.

Who is Dave?
Dave is one of the Minions.

Who is Darwin?
Darwin is one of the Minions, only appears in Banana.

Who is Count Dracula?
Count Dracula was a vampire who lived in Transylvania and a former master of the Minions.

Who is Corgi (or Corgis, Royal Corgis)?
Corgi (or Corgis, Royal Corgis) - One of the characters pets in Minions. These were Queen Elizabeth's favorite dogs.  They appear in the Film Minions, Mower Minions, The Secret Life of Pets. It is currently unknown whether they appear  in Despicable Me 4.

Who is Clive?
Clive is Balthazar Bratt's robot sidekick in the movie Despicable Me 3, continuing to assist Bratt in his supervillain schemes after Bratt's TV show was cancelled. He is voiced by Andy Nyman.

Who is Charlie?
Charlie is a minion who appears in the intro video of Minions Paradise.

Who is Carnival Barker?
The Carnival Barker is a minor and antagonistic character in Despicable Me. He runs the game Space Killer at Super Silly Fun Land.

Who is The British News Reporter?
The British News Reporter is a British news reporter in Minions. He can be seen reporting Bob becoming the new king and later Scarlet Overkill becoming the new queen.

Who is Bob?
Bob (Bobby or Robert) is one of the Minions. A minion by the same name, having a different appearance, appears in Despicable Me 2, and Minions.

Who is Bob?
Bob (temporarily known as King Bob) is one of the Minions. He first appears in Despicable Me 2 and the prequel films Minions and Minions: The Rise of Gru.

Who is Blind Tower Guard?
The Blind Tower Guard was an old Beefeater who takes care of the crown of the Queen Elizabeth II located in the Tower of London. He is a minor character in the film Minions.

Who is Blackbeard ?
Blackbeard was one of the Minions' former masters.

Who is Binky Nelson?
Binky Nelson is a minor character in Minions. He is the youngest child of Madge and Walter Nelson; he is with his family along with Kevin, Stuart and Bob in the ride to Orlando. He appears with his skeleton-shaped pacifier.

Who is Beefeaters?
The Beefeaters are minor characters in the film Minions. They are the security guards working around Tower of London.

Who is bear?
The bear is a minor character in Minions. When the Minions gave the Caveman a fly swatter to kill it, the bear killed the Caveman.

Who is Beach Girls?
The Beach Girls are two minor characters that appear in Despicable Me 3.

Who is Barry?
Barry is a minion who only appears in the intro video of Minions Paradise. He also appears in Saturday Morning Minions episode "Point Guard".

Who is Balthazar Bratt?
Balthazar Bratt (born July 19, 1973) is the overarching antagonist of the Despicable Me franchise, serving as one of the two unseen overarching antagonists of Despicable Me (the other being Eduardo Perez), the unseen overarching antagonist of Despicable Me 2, the main antagonist of Despicable Me 3, one of the three unseen overarching antagonists of Minions: The Rise of Gru (the other being Eduardo Perez and Scarlet Overkill), and will be one of the two posthumous overarching antagonists of Despicable Me 4 (the other being Eduardo Perez). He is a former child star who turned to a life of villainy after his TV show 'Evil Bratt' got cancelled. He is voiced by Trey Parker.

Who is Audrey?
Audrey is a local environmentalist girl who dreamed of one day being able to see a real tree. Thought people are not sure how she knew about it, it might have been a source like Grammy Norma who told her. The red head seems to be a good friend of Ted, and she seems to like him being around her.

Who are the Athletes?
Athletes (a. k. a. Royal servants) - five (or eight) athletes, whom they constantly play polo riding Corgis. Appears in the film Minions.

Who is Antonio Perez?
Antonio Perez is the tertiary antagonist in Despicable Me 2. He is the son of Eduardo Perez (otherwise known as El Macho) and the first known love interest of Margo Gru, much to the disapproval of Felonius Gru (Margo's adoptive father).

Who is Amphibian?
The prehistoric Amphibian creature is a minor character that appeared in the beginning of the film Minions.

Who is Agnes Gru?
Agnes Gru is one of Gru and Lucy's three adopted daughters, alongside her big sisters Margo and Edith. She is the youngest child of the three sisters. She greatly adores unicorns, as shown on various occasions.  She appears in all four Despicable Me films and several of the mini movies.

Who is Aaron?
Aaron is one of the Minions.

Who are the 3 women?
The 3 women are 3 minor character that appear in Despicable Me 2. They are present at Salsa & Salsa when Margo and Antonio have there "date". When Eduardo Perez (El Macho) is dancing with a teenage girl. The trio seem to be attracted to him. When he is finished dancing the female on the left passes out, knocking over her chair in the progress. The woman in the center passes out, her chair staying up. The woman on the right passes out onto her plate, spilling her sauce.